---
title: April Project End Report
description: March Project End Report
author: Timo Koola
date: 2023-05-07
tags:
  - created
  - posts
---

This time life was too busy and April project remained a dream. Better luck next time, I hope

### Conclusion of the the April Project

From the April project setup:

> The April project team is "templates" and "documentation". My first goal is to create a template for a command line tool. I often have a need to create a command line tool and I would be much faster and had more of them, if I had a pre-thought structure to follow. I have also decided to us Go lang for my command line tools in the future. While my brain thinks in Python, the "single deployable binary" is extremely convenient. I have a couple of ideas that probably two gets implemented in April.

> I also will document and formalize a template for a Google Cloud Function projects (at least for Python, stretch goal for Go lang as well). [timokoola/wordformemailreport](https://github.com/timokoola/wordformemailreport) is a good basis for more generic template.

> And finally, I want to document the architecture of the word form collector in a single post I can use as a landing page in the future.

Sometimes life is more interesting than coding and it was this time. I like this project setup and I think it will be done some time later this year. For May I have other plans...

### May Project

I have been slowly building this tool for collecting Finnish noun forms [see e.x. February project post](/posts/20230209). Now it is finally time to start building the UI. This month's goal is to build basics of it and have it running in Google Cloud. I plan to build it using Django. More of that soon.
